(gentle music)
So, Sumire's assignment
to the Scientific Ninja
Tools Team was finalized?
Yeah, it was.
It was on hold until
just a little while ago.
Wait, hold on a second.
I thought the Scientific
Ninja Tools Team
had been shut down? (chomps)
Mr. Katasuke's been on
suspension since that incident.
(buzzer buzzes)
-And the lab was closed down.
-(buzzer buzzes)
But I heard a new
facility's being built
under the Hokage's supervision.
A new building? (chomps)
Yep!
I guess they're building
a larger facility
so they can increase research
into Scientific Ninja Tools.
Yeah, it's located on the
outskirts of the Land of Fire.
So we won't be
able to see Sumire
as often anymore, will we?
Come on, don't be so sad.
That's right!
Ta-dah!
-[Girls] Hm?
-So?
I just slapped it together!
It's her farewell
party invitation!
Let's invite our classmates
from the Academy and celebrate!
Oh, wow!
How great!
Sumire'll be totally surprised!
-That's right!
-(footsteps tapping)
There's no point in gettin' sad.
I mean, this is something
Sumire really wants to do.
So let's give her
a proper sendoff!
Mhm.
Okay, it's a plan!
Let's get going, Namida.
We don't wanna keep
Hanabi Sensei waiting.
-(gasps) That's right!
-(footsteps tapping)
-See ya!
(air whooshing)
(Cho-Cho eating)
It must be really tough
when you lose a
member of your team,
don't you think?
Yeah, I know, right?
-(footsteps tapping)
-(village bustling)
I wonder what
Hanabi Sensei wanted
to talk to us about.
Hm.
I'm guessing it's about
finding a new team member.
Yeah, you're probably right.
(exclaims) Wasabi, look out!
Hm?
-(air whooshing)
-Whoa!
-(Wasabi exclaims)
-(air whooshing)
(metallic clink)
-(Wasabi exclaims)
-(wooden thud)
Wasabi, you okay?
Ow, that really hurts!
That was dangerous, ya know!
Here I thought that
a shinobi like you
would be able to dodge
that quite surely.
What?
Are the shinobi of this
village blunt and mediocre?
(gasps) Why you!
Just what are you implying?
(air whooshing)
(Namida gasps)
Who the hell was that, anyway?
(opening theme music)
(singing in Japanese)
Regarding Sumire's replacement,
are you sure that this kid's
gonna be a good choice?
Of course.
Don't be worried.
A samurai from the
Land of Iron, huh?
Putting samurai and shinobi
together on the same team
is a new concept we
haven't tried before.
In this age, it doesn't matter
if you're a shinobi
or a samurai.
Well, still, it's all
highly experimental.
Only you'd come up with this.
Oh?
Hm? What's up?
She was the last
student of Mifune,
the leader of the samurai?
Looks like we're gonna have
a troublesome one on our hands.
(chuckles) I guess so.
(air whooshing)
-(footsteps tapping)
-[Girls] Hanabi Sensei!
You're late!
-I know, sorry!
[Tsubaki] As I thought,
blunt and mediocre.
Huh?
You're that girl from earlier!
Oh, you know each other?
That's great!
That'll speed everything up!
-(air whooshing)
-(Wasabi exhales)
-(drums beating)
-(coat flaps)
-(heavy rock music)
-(feet landing)
This is Tsubaki Kurogane.
She's going to be
joining our team.
(gasps) What, her?
Meet Wasabi and
Namida of Team 15.
My name's Hanabi, and
I'm the team captain.
I look forward to
working with you.
She's an exchange
student who's come
to the Leaf Village
from the Land of Iron.
It's her first time
in the Hidden Leaf.
So please, make
her feel welcome.
Wait, Tsubaki, are
you really a samurai?
Let me get this straight,
a non-shinobi's
joining our team?
That's right.
It's a decision that was
made by the higher-ups.
Also, Tsubaki, now that
you've joined Team 15,
you'll need to abide
by Shinobi Rules.
Now, that being said,
since Tsubaki's just arrived,
Wasabi and Namida, it's your job
to show her around
the Hidden Leaf
and try to foster
some teamwork today.
Right!
Why do I have to?
-[Hanabi] Wasabi!
-Okay!
I'm sorry, but I'm going to need
to head out on a
mission very shortly.
Are you gonna be investigating
dangerous criminals
in the Bingo Book?
Please be careful, okay?
[Hanabi] Thank you.
I'm counting on all of you.
Tsubaki, this okay?
Of course.
(village bustling)
So, uh, where do you
want to go, Tsubaki?
You haven't had
lunch yet, right?
I'm okay.
(Namida whimpers)
Allow me to just say one thing.
I'm only here under
my superior's orders.
I'll return home
once my term is up.
So please rest assured.
-What?
-(Wasabi sighs)
That mean you don't
care about anything?
I just mean there is
nothing I can learn
from the shinobi
of this village.
Hey, uh, listen you guys, uh...
(footsteps tapping)
-(groovy music)
-Oh, I get it.
Well, you certainly seem
to be very confident.
So let's test how
good your skills are,
right here and right now!
(air whooshing)
-Ninja Art: Cat Cloak!
-(hood flaps)
(metallic clink)
Hey, c'mon you two, please!
(Wasabi growling)
-(foot slides)
-(chime ringing)
-(metallic clink)
-That'll be enough.
-Huh?
If I'd drawn my sword,
you'd already be dead.
The match was decided
as soon as you
positioned yourself
in front of me.
(scoffs) Seems you
samurai are just all talk.
Besides, what
business do you have
coming to a shinobi
village, anyway?
(footsteps tapping)
(panicking) Wasabi, wait!
The higher-ups just
don't realize it.
Shinobi lack the steadfast
conviction samurai have.
And I will prove it to them.
(footsteps tapping)
[Boruto] Hm?
What's this?
[Sarada] It's an invitation
to Sumire's farewell party.
You're all gonna come, right?
[Shikadai] Oh, right!
Her Scientific Ninja Tools
Team assignment was finalized.
That's gonna leave Team
15 in a really tough spot!
What are those guys gonna do?
Oh, uh,
seems they've already
decided on a new team member.
I heard rumors that
she's an exchange student
from the Land of Iron.
Hold on, you're saying
she's a samurai?
The Land of Iron?
Samurai?
What's that again?
We learned about them in class,
-remember?
-(traditional music)
They have their own
traditions and culture,
and they use kenjutsu,
the art of the sword.
Kenjutsu?
That's the one the guys
from the Hidden Mist
are good at, isn't it?
Yeah, but unlike shinobi,
samurai are said to
be able to focus all
of their chakra
into their swords.
Does that mean they're strong?
You know, I wonder about that.
Their land is situated
deep in the mountains,
and they rarely interact with
anybody from other nations.
Their culture has remained
largely the same over the years,
and some say they're
behind the times,
or the era for
samurai is over now-
[Tsubaki] That isn't true.
Huh?
(drums rolling)
(Sarada exclaims)
Hm? Hold on, are you-
Yeah! This is Tsubaki!
She just joined up with Team 15!
Deep in the mountains, huh?
So, you're saying
samurai are outdated?
-(tense music)
-Wasabi!
-How shallow.
-Huh?
Thanks to our land's
location in the mountains,
the Land of Iron is protected
by a natural fortress.
Guess that's too much
for you to figure out.
It appears that peace has
made shinobi complacent.
-(Tsubaki slams desk)
-What was that?
Hey, come on, let's
all calm down, okay?
Listen, are you hungry?
Here, try these!
They're called fries.
No, thank you.
Uh, what?
Did you seriously just
refuse my friendship fries?
That's a very rude
thing to do, you know!
(nervously chuckles) Well, um-
-Huh?
-She just got here,
and she isn't used to the
way that we do things.
How deplorable.
What?
A spineless shinobi
desperately trying
to smooth over a situation
before things turn ugly.
How different you
all are from samurai.
-(explosion booms)
-You know,
I'd watch what you
say if I were you.
You pickin' a fight?
(metallic clink)
Uh, hold on, Sarada, calm down!
Let's not fight, okay?
That would be very wise.
Because the moment
I draw my sword,
you'll soon come to regret it.
(scoffs) Gimme a
break, whatever.
You're just all talk.
Let's go, Cho-Cho.
Hold on, Sarada!
Tsubaki!
[Wasabi] You're unbelievable.
Huh?
All you've done since you
got here is make enemies.
(footsteps tapping)
Wasabi! (whimpers)
-(birds cawing)
-(birds chirping)
(footsteps tapping)
You guys!
We're all on the
same team, here!
Can you please try to get along?
That's easier said than done.
But since she has no
desire to get along,
it's going to be impossible.
But-
About today,
I appreciate you showing
me around the Leaf Village.
Thanks to you, I got
to see that shinobi
lack the conviction
samurai possess.
What?
Now, if you'll excuse me.
(footsteps tapping)
You mean, that's what
you were thinking
while you were walking
around the village?
Yes.
And it would appear that
I was right, after all.
(footsteps tapping)
-(clothing ruffles)
-You haven't seen anything!
'Cause we shinobi have
lots of conviction!
Really, then where
are you hiding it?
-(tense music)
-You probably can't see it
because your
attitude's in the way!
Wasabi!
(Wasabi grunts)
(air whooshing)
(footsteps tapping)
(Tsubaki exhales)
You, you said shinobi
lack conviction.
I don't think that's something
you can determine so easily.
(air whooshing)
-(peaceful music)
-(village bustling)
Uh, Wasabi.
Yeah, I know, I know.
It's just, I don't know if
it's actually even possible
for shinobi and
samurai to get along.
(sighs) But if we
don't find a way
to work this situation out,
then Sumire is
gonna be really sad.
(Wasabi sighs)
(Namida sighs)
There's lots of
people down there.
And there are even
more people than that
in the rest of the world.
Out of all those people,
someone from far away has
come here to be with us.
It's understandable that we
wouldn't get along right away.
Yeah, I guess so.
Ah, is that?
-(Wasabi exhales)
-By that alley...
I've seen him somewhere before.
Wait, is he...
(chime rings)
-Oh, yeah!
-(ominous music)
Wasabi, what-
It's the guy!
He's one of the ones that was
in Hanabi Sensei's Bingo Book!
(exclaims) Oh no!
We need to let Hanabi
Sensei know about this!
-No!
-(footsteps tapping)
(Namida gasps)
By the time we go and get
backup, he'll be gone!
We need to handle
this ourselves!
Let's go get him!
(panicking) But we don't have
the authorization to fight!
Maybe not, but we
can't risk anyone else
-becoming his victim!
-(footsteps tapping)
(gasps) Hey, wait up!
(footsteps tapping)
Listen well, Tsubaki.
In order to restore
the Land of Iron,
I'm sending you to go
study in another land.
Will you please go
to the Land of Fire?
(footsteps tapping)
-(air whooshing)
-(Tsubaki exhales)
What are they doing?
-(Tsubaki grunts)
-(footsteps tapping)
(owl hooting)
(footsteps tapping)
-(Wasabi exhales)
-(Namida whimpers)
(footsteps tapping)
(Wasabi gasps)
He's gone.
Where could he have run off to?
Come on, Wasabi,
let's just go back
and get someone to help!
-What's this?
-(girls exhale)
I thought it was
the Police Force,
but it turns out I was just
followed by some lil' shinobi.
(exclaims) Wasabi!
Don't mess with us!
We can handle
someone like you...
(fugitives chuckling)
So, you weren't alone, huh?
I recognize those other two!
They were in the
Bingo Book, as well!
I'm really very sorry,
-but because you've seen us,
-(knuckles cracking)
we're gonna have to
get rid of you two.
(scoffs) You won't
get us that easily!
We'll show you the
power of the shinobi
of the Leaf Village!
-(scroll whips)
-(tense music)
-(palm slams)
-Cat Cloak Jutsu, Release!
(energy whooshing)
(toes cracking)
-(energy whooshing)
-(claws slicing)
-(air whooshing)
-(Wasabi grunts)
-(fugitive exclaims)
-(Wasabi exclaims)
-(air whooshing)
-She's fast!
(air whooshing)
-(Wasabi grunts)
-(fugitive grunts)
(snickers) Not bad!
(fugitive grunts)
-(air whooshing)
-(tail whipping)
(footsteps tapping)
Namida, I'm gonna leave
the other guy to you!
-I got it!
-(metallic clink)
(fugitive grunts)
Here we go!
-(Wasabi grunting)
-(fugitive grunting)
(metal slicing)
-(Wasabi exclaims)
-(fugitive grunts)
-(feet dragging)
Whoo! Pretty good!
It's working!
Keep it up and end
it with one shot!
-(Wasabi exclaims)
-(footsteps tapping)
(Wasabi growling)
-(Wasabi grunting)
-(metal slicing)
(fugitive grunting)
-(air whooshing)
-(fugitive laughing)
(fugitive grunts)
-(Wasabi grunts)
-(explosion booms)
(exhales) It's a smokescreen!
(kunai whipping)
-(kunai slicing)
-(Wasabi groans) Damn it!
-(kunais whipping)
-(Wasabi exclaiming)
(Wasabi groaning)
Wasabi!
[Fugitive] Better pay attention!
(Namida exclaims)
(fugitive grunts)
-(wooden thud)
-(Namida exclaims)
(Namida groans)
(footsteps tapping)
Namida!
-(Wasabi gasps)
-(hand squeezing)
-(fugitive grunts)
-(Wasabi grunts)
-(Wasabi exclaims)
What's wrong?
Is your headband
just an accessory?
-(metallic clink)
-(foot stomps)
(Wasabi groaning)
-(hand squeezing)
-(Namida groans)
Why don't you leave your buddy
and just get on outta here?
-(Namida falls)
-(Wasabi gasps)
(Wasabi whimpering)
(hand squeezing)
(intense rock music)
We shinobi don't leave
our friends behind
(inhales) and run away!
Shinobi protect our own!
That's my conviction!
That's my nindo!
And that's my Ninja Way!
(fugitive cackling)
Come on!
Having conviction is pointless!
It's gonna get you killed!
(metallic clang)
Huh?
-(air whooshing)
-(footsteps tap)
(Wasabi gasps)
Tsubaki!
But what are you doing here?
You don't give up.
You fight to the end to
protect your friends.
My opinion of shinobi is
starting to improve a little.
(Wasabi exhales)
Oh, look!
Here comes another
little shinobi!
Wrong, I am not a shinobi!
-(air whooshing)
-(sword thuds)
(fugitive grunting)
-(fugitive exclaims)
-(air whooshing)
-(sword thudding)
-I am a samurai!
(fugitive exclaims)
(groans) Damn it!
-(fugitive grunts)
-(explosion booms)
-(Wasabi exhales)
-(fugitive grunts)
Hey!
It's a smokescreen!
Careful, Tsubaki!
Let me warn you,
once I draw my sword,
you'll soon come to regret it.
-Shut up!
-(fugitive grunts)
-(kunai whipping)
-(kunai slicing)
Take cover!
(Wasabi grunts)
-(metallic clink)
-(energy whooshing)
-Secret Sword: Snowstorm Slash!
-(sword slicing)
(air whooshing)
-(explosion booms)
-(tornado whooshing)
(Wasabi groaning)
(tornado whooshing)
(trees falling)
(logs breaking)
(Wasabi groans)
(Wasabi exhales)
(groans) Wasabi!
(Namida exclaims)
What happened?
(metallic clink)
(ominous sound effect)
Listen, do you guys
really understand?
Do you get it?
This could've ended up worse
than you getting injured!
What were you thinking?
Use your brains before
you act next time!
(gentle music)
I mean, you guys don't
even have the authorization
to fight in the first place!
[Sumire] You must be Tsubaki.
Nue!
Thank you for protecting
everyone today!
You must be Miss Sumire.
Is that right?
Yes!
I'm leaving them in your hands.
Wasabi, Namida, all of Team 15!
My pleasure.
I was able to observe
Wasabi's Ninja Way in action.
At first, I thought shinobi
were blunt and mediocre,
that they were unpolished
and lacked conviction.
However...
there's still quite a lot
that I don't know yet.
And I hope to learn
more, moving forward.
-You will!
-Nue!
In any case, this is
quite a long scolding.
(Sumire chuckles)
All right, is
everyone ready now?
Here we go!
(confetti popping)
[Students]
Congratulations, Class Rep!
Aw, thanks, you guys!
Nue!
-[Inojin] Here!
-(Sumire gasps)
[Mitsuki] Do your best!
(Sumire exhales)
[Shikadai] Here you go!
-Oh, goodness!
-(students chatting)
[Sarada] (chuckles)
This is from all of us!
We'll be best
friends till the end!
Do your best over
there, okay, Class Rep?
Thanks so much, Boruto!
-(Namida sobbing)
-Hey, Namida,
come on, stop crying
so much, would you?
(Namida crying)
Please come and visit us, okay?
Namida!
Wasabi!
-Sumire!
-(Namida sobbing)
-(Sumire sobbing)
-[Namida] We'll miss you!
-[Wasabi] All right,
don't overdo it!
(closing theme music)
(singing in Japanese)
(birds chirping)
(packet rustling)
(fries rustling)
(gentle music)
(Tsubaki gasps)
(Tsubaki chomping)
-(chimes ringing)
-(Tsubaki moaning)
Wow!
I never knew this world
had something so delicious!
(Tsubaki gasps)
(air whooshing)
-(Tsubaki chomping)
-(Tsubaki exhales)
I mean, it's not bad
for shinobi cuisine.
(Tsubaki chomping)
(upbeat music)
[Boruto] (exclaims) I
don't know what to do!
[Sarada] What's wrong, Boruto?
[Mitsuki] What happened?
Why are you so flustered?
[Boruto] I have no idea
what to get my grandpa
for his birthday present!
[Mitsuki] A present for
your grandfather, huh?
[Boruto] Do you know
of something he'd like?
[Sarada] What?
If his own grandson doesn't
know, then how would we?
[Boruto] Next time on "Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations",
"Hiashi's Birthday".
A present for Grandpa...
What would make him happy?
(closing theme music)